- [Instructor] In this lesson, we're going to walk through
a demonstration that uses the Java EE 8 security API
to secure a servlet.
Within the demonstration, we're going to use
the three primary interfaces found within the security API.
So we're going to build a custom identity store.
We're also going to create a custom HTTP
authentication mechanism.
And then we're going to leverage the security context.
So to get started, we're going to create a new class
within the com.linkedin package found in our H Sports
catalog security project.
So just open up the dialogue to create a new class.
And then we're going to name that class security config.
We'll go ahead and create the class.
And then we're going to apply some annotations here.
We're going to add the named annotation
and we're also going to specify that this class
is application-scoped.
So we've seen both of those before.
And then we're going to introduce a new annotation
from the security API.
And that's the basic authentication
mechanism definition annotation.
And within that annotation, we're going to specify
a realm name.
And this points to a security realm
within our WildFly server named local.
So here we have established our authentication mechanism,
very simple, using the annotation-based approach
within the new security API.
Now let's move on and we're going to create another class.
And this class is going to be named
the custom identity store.
And we're going to implement the new identity
store interface.
So there you can see it within
the java.security.enterprise.identitystore package.
So we'll go ahead and put that in place.
And then on that class, we're also going to add
the named annotation as well as
the application-scoped annotation.
So these are going to be beans within our app.
And then we're going to override one of the methods.
So to do that just right-click, then go to source
and then find the override method.
And you'll see that right here.
And then select the validate method.
We're going to implement that method.
Now, the first thing I'll do is remove the override
because we're going to switch this up to use
a username and password credential.
And we'll go ahead, import that object.
And now, we can use that credential to basically
check that the user has valid credentials,
that they are who they say they are and they are a valid
user of the system.
We're going to do a very simple check here.
We're just going to take the credential,
use its compare to method, and here we pass in the username,
which is going to be Kevin.
You can put your name if you'd like.
And then we're going to specify a password of password.
From here, this would be a successful login.
So we can return a new credential validation result.
And all we need to do is supply the name of the user
and then we're going to create a hash set
that is going to contain the roles of the user.
So let's build out that new hash set.
And we're just going to send in a list of the roles
that the user has.
So in this case, we're going to give this user
the admin role as well as a basic user role.
Okay, so there we have our logic in place
that is going to check the user's name and password.
And if they fail to provide a valid username
and password, then we're going to use the credential
validation result and you'll see a static invalid result
that we can return.
So we just want to indicate that
it was an unsuccessful login.
So that completes the setup of our custom identity store.
Now we're going to turn to the servlet.
And that's the actual resource
that we're looking to protect.
So on the servlet, we're going to do a few things.
We're going to declare the roles that we will allow
to access the servlet.
And we can provide those as an array of strings.
So admin as well as basic.
And then the next thing we're going to do
is add another annotation, the servlet security annotation.
And here we're going to pass in a constraint.
So these are the available roles and then this constraint
is going to limit who can access the servlet.
And on that HTTP constraint annotation, we're going
to find a roles allowed element and we're simply
going to specify that only the admin is allowed
to access this servlet.
Okay, so that has put our security in place.
Now let's take a look at using the security context.
So we can create a new field, security context,
and be sure to choose the appropriate type.
And we'll just call this our security context.
And then we can go ahead and inject that object
into our servlet.
And that's going to contain information about the user
such as their name.
We can also get their roles from that.
So let's do this.
Let's within our output here, we're just going
to identify the user, that way we can see
that we have appropriately identified the user.
We know who they are and we can print out their information.
So we'll use the security context
and on the security context, you'll see the get
caller principle method.
On there, we're going to get the name
of the caller principle.
Okay, so with all this in place, let's make sure
everything is saved and then we're going to right-click
on our H Sports catalog security project.
Go to run as, run on server, and we're going to run it
on our WildFly server.
And I'll start opening a browser.
And then it's going to be HTTP local host 8080
and it will be at the context root hsports-catalog-security
and then our servlet is accessed by providing
the secure path after our context root, okay?
So you can see I was prompted to provide credentials
but let's go ahead.
I'm going to enter something wrong here.
And you'll notice that we are prevented
from accessing the servlet.
And then I'm going to go ahead and provide
the right credentials.
And you'll see that we were logged in.
And the security context was able to identify us
and we were able to retrieve information
about the authenticated user.
So that was a look at the Java EE 8 security API
and how we can use it to protect our applications.